Well, throughout his earthly ministry, Jesus expressed and showed gratitude.
Let's look at what we can learn from what he said and what he did as a thankful person.
First, Jesus' heartfelt prayers of thanks had an effect on others.
Consider what happened the day after Jesus miraculously fed thousands
near Bethesseida along the sea of Galilee.
At John 6.23 we read that boats from Tiberius arrived near the place where they ate the bread
after the Lord had given thanks.
That added comment after the Lord had given thanks must be in there for a reason.
For one thing, this tells us that the boats arrived not just near the place where a miracle had occurred the day before.
It also tells us that the boats arrived near the place where the Lord had given thanks.
That fact was recorded under inspiration many years later by the Apostle John.
And this shows us that Jesus' true disciples saw and remembered more than the miracle itself.
They also witnessed and remembered Jesus' heartfelt prayer of thanks.
No doubt Jesus' disciples followed his good example.
Let's look at two of the many fine qualities that Christians who imitate Jesus' good example display,
namely courage and humility.
We begin with courage.
Jesus was moved by a deep sense of gratitude to be courageous.
Why can we say this?
For one thing, because of something that he said during a very critical time for him,
you'll recall that in the Garden of Gethsemane,
Jesus prayed out of great concern over the reproach that his death as one being charged with
blasphemy and sedition would bring to his heavenly Father.
In fact, Jesus implored Jehovah that a death of this sort might pass away from him.
Yet despite such intense feelings, he said, not as I will, but as you will.
What helped Jesus to make that courageous statement knowing what it would lead to?
We find the answer in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2 where it says in part of Jesus
that for the joy that was set before him, he endured a torture stake, despising shame, it said.
So what helped Jesus to accept God's will for him?
The joy that was set before him.
That joy included his hope, yes, but above all his privilege to honor Jehovah by keeping his integrity.
No matter how much his enemies opposed him, mocked him, or tried to keep shame on him and his heavenly Father,
Jesus put that out of his mind, despising shame and finding joy.
For the joy that was set before him, he gratefully and courageously accepted the privilege of
putting God's will ahead of his own, not as I will, but as you will, he said.
Do God's people today imitate Jesus grateful and courageous example?
Absolutely. Jesus' true followers today strive to do God's will despite threats of imprisonment,
actual imprisonment, torture, verbal abuse, loss of livelihood, and so forth.
And when our brothers are unjustly imprisoned, we do all that we can for them,
including speaking up in their behalf and, of course, praying for them.
Like Jesus' gratitude for the privilege to know and worship Jehovah,
and for the blessing of serving in this marvelous brotherhood that we have,
should move us to have and show courage in doing God's will today.
And we allow gratitude, not shame, to take root and grow within us.
The second quality that we want to look at is this,
grateful Christians are humble people. Again, we'll consider Jesus' example.
Every miracle that he performed and every teaching that he passed on to his disciples
was carried out in humility. Jesus never sought to draw attention to himself, did he?
Instead, what do we see? We see that he was grateful for the privilege to serve others
and grateful for every positive response that he saw in others.
And what he saw went beneath the surface.
With that in mind, think about what happened during Jesus' last evening with his faithful apostles
when their imperfections were on full display, you could say.
For instance, out of all of them, only Jesus would wash the feet of the others.
Yet despite this, Jesus saw what? He saw the good in them,
and he was motivated to do something extraordinary for them.
Take note of what Jesus saw in them as we read Luke chapter 22 and verses 28 and 29,
where Jesus said this to them.
However, you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials,
and I make a covenant with you just as my father has made a covenant with me for a kingdom.
What moved Jesus to do this for them?
Gratitude. You see, Jesus saw the good in them, didn't he? And he remembered it.
You are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials, he said.
What a wonderful gift he was offering to them, inviting them to share in his kingdom.
And what outstanding humility he displayed in doing this,
Jesus did not view himself as so great in his own eyes,
that he could overlook the good that was in his disciples.
He was humble, he appreciated the good, and he truly loved them to the end.
Do we likewise show humility and gratitude, though faced with the imperfections of our brothers?
We must remember that Jesus never overreacted to the obvious faults and his disciples.
Instead, he was grateful for their support, and he always looked for and found
and found the good in them. We should want to do the same for one another.
All of us need it. In fact, we need one another now more than ever, don't we?
The gratitude that we feel for being in pure worship should move us to seek the good in one
another always. Along with this, we should be moved to reach out and encourage one another
in any way that we can. This includes giving sincere commendation that stems from gratitude.
As Jesus said, you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials. He was commending them,
acknowledging the good in them. He was thankful for it. We too should give sincere commendation
to others one appropriate, and do it out of gratitude. We really mean it from the heart.
So what have we considered this morning? We looked at how Jesus and
seer prayers of thanks were long remembered by his disciples. In fact, his prayers were remembered
as much as his miracles. As another example, think of what we read at John 1141,
where when resurrecting Lazarus, Jesus offered a prayer and started off by saying, Father,
I thank you that you have heard me. That resurrection was astounding, but Jesus' prayer of thanks
was also remembered. We also reviewed how Christ-like qualities such as courage and humility
grow out of a grateful heart, and we considered ways in which we can show such qualities,
and Jehovah's people are definitely doing this. The numbers that we hear about of those now
attending our meetings are proof of the grateful spirit founding God's people,
and in those who see the wisdom of returning while there's still time. We don't yet know
when this present world situation will end, but we do know this. Jehovah's purpose will not fail.
Jehovah and his Son will make certain that all causes for harm disappear forever,
and aren't we grateful for that? Our job is this. We need to make certain that we are ready to
accept the opportunities that may yet present themselves in doing Jehovah's will before the complete
end arrives. This includes giving everything we've got to helping others come over to Jehovah's
side, the gratitude, and humility, the courage that result from a thankful spirit will help us to do this.